# 15 Python Interview Questions and Answers

### 1. Discuss some characteristics of the Python programming language.

> Python is object-oriented, it's easy to read, and makes complex tasks simple. It's a Rapid Application Development (RAD) program, and I often use it as a scripting language. It's an interpreted language, dramatically typed, and its functions are first-class objects. You can use any text editor to write Python.  Python uses third-party modules, is compatible with all major operating systems, and dynamically uses variables. Other reasons it's popular are its outstanding library, it's ability to support big data, and that it can expedite test-driven development.


### 2. What are some of Python's core default modules?

> Default modules include email, which is parsed and generated by Python. Other default modules are XML support, string, and databases.

### 3. Discuss the frameworks for app development that are popular with Python users.

> Python is an excellent general-purpose dynamic language because it's easy to understand and implement. It's popular for creating various apps for mobile phones because of its interactive environment. It runs on the major operating systems, and there are many frameworks for using Python. For instance, Pyramid, Circuits, and CherryPy as well as other frameworks are Flask, Web2Py, Pycnic and Django.


### 4. How does Python manage memory?

> Python manages memory with private heap space. The private heap holds Python objects and data structures. The memory manager assigns objects. The garbage collector recycles any unused memory and routes it to the heap space.


### 5. Explain and give an example of inheritance

> The inheritance function gives one class the characteristics and methods of another class. The child class, or the derived class, gains the characteristics. Super-class is the data sending the characteristics. The reason for inheritance is to create and maintain apps and deliver code reusability. Python supports three types of inheritance. One is the single inheritance where a derived class obtains a single superclass. The second Python inheritance is multi faceted where data can inherit a derived class from another. Finally, the multiple inheritance means that a child class receives all the methods and attributes from one or more base, or parent, classes.


### 6. What are arrays in Python?

> An array is a special variable that holds more than one value at a time. Python doesn't have built-in arrays, so instead, we can use lists. Alternatively, to develop arrays in Python I might import a library like NumPy. Arrays contain mixed data types, and the numarray module even provides support for IDL-style array operations, multi-dimensional array, and the 'where' function. The numarray only works with numbers, and its length is the highest array index plus one. Lists support objects and strings but can also convert to arrays.

